Computer Security - CS466 DE
Assignment 8 - Week 10
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Student Name: -
Student ID: -
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
This assignment is based on topics covered in week 10 (Lecture 12 & Chapter 19).
Please submit your own work on time.  You will NOT get credit if you submit the assignment after the due date.   
Note that the completed assignment should be submitted in .txt format only.
If you think that your answer needs explanation to get credit then please write it down.  
If you have any questions about the assignment, then post a topic on the Sakai forum to discuss that problem.

(1) The Melissa virus is a
a) Executable infector
b) Boot sector virus
c) Macro virus
d) Multipartite virus
ANS:C

(2) A great text editor is UltraEdit. It lets you download a trial version that you can 
      use for 30 days before having to pay for it. After 30 days, however, the trial 
      program ceases to work. Is this an example of a logic bomb?
a) Yes
b) No
ANS:No

(3) The Father Christmas worm was effective because it employed what kind of 
       engineering?
a) Computer engineering
b) Social engineering
c) Software engineering
d) Desktop engineering
ANS:b

(4) From the textbook "Defending against malicious logic takes advantage of 
      several different characteristics of malicious logic to detect, or to block, its         
      execution. The mechanisms are imprecise". Given this, which of the following   
      statements are true?
a) A defense mechanism is secure if it allows malicious logic that does not exhibit the given  
    characteristic to proceed
b) A defense mechanism is precise if it allows malicious logic that does not exhibit the given 
    characteristic to proceed
c) A defense mechanism is broad if it allows malicious logic that does not exhibit the given 
    characteristic to proceed
d) A defense mechanism is secure if it prevents programs from executing that are not 
    malicious but do exhibit the given characteristic.
e) A defense mechanism is precise if it prevents programs from executing that are not 
    malicious but do exhibit the given characteristic.
f) A defense mechanism is broad if it prevents programs from executing that are not 
   malicious but do exhibit the given characteristic.
ANS:d



(5) The textbook gave the following example of a rabbit:
while true
  mkdir x (create a directory named x)
  chdir x (make the newly created directory the current directory)
done
       Would this still be a rabbit if you removed the chdir x?
a) Yes
b) No
c) It depends on whether the user has administrative privileges
d) It depends on whether the user has permission to create nested directories.
ANS:b

(6) Traditional access controls are powerless to defend against Trojan horse 
      programs.
a) True
b) False
ANS:b

(7) Which of the following are possible spread conditions for a computer virus?
a) Today's date
b) Number of times infected program has been executed since it was infected
c) The type of the virus
d) Existence of a file in a certain directory
e) The covert action
ANS:c

(8) Let's say you got an email that told you that the file dvpsetup.exe in the 
      windows system32 directory (c:\windows\system32 on my machine) was a 
      dangerous virus and you should delete it immediately. The message claimed to 
      come from SANS. Furthermore the message told you to forward it to everybody 
      in your address book. So use windows explorer to see if you have dvpsetup.exe 
      on your computer and you notice that its icon is an X which looks very 
      suspicious. So you delete the file and tell all your friends to do so also. 
     Unfortunately this is part of the Windows operating system (It is the Microsoft 
     DirectPlay Voice Test.)   What is the best way to describe this email?
a) It's a hoax
b) It's a virus
c) It's a worm
d) It's a rabbit.
e) none of the above
ANS:e

(9) How can a Trojan horse assume a user's identity?
a) By using a dictionary attack.
b) Effortlessly, because the user is logged on when he/she runs the trojan horse program.
c) Effortlessly, because you have to have administrative privileges to run a trojan horse 
    program.
ANS:b

(10) Which of these types of malicious logic are designed to avoid detection by a 
       virus detection program?
a) TSR viruses
b) Encrypted viruses
c) Trojan horses
d) Boot sector infectors
e) Polymorphic viruses
ANS:b,e

(11) Rabbit attacks which one of the following?
a) Availability
b) Confidentiality
c) Integrity
ANS:a


(12) A manipulation detection code is based on:
a) Permission bits
b) Timestamps
c) A keyed cryptographic checksum
d) A keyless cryptographic checksum
ANS:d


(13) An MDC is
a) A prevention mechanism
b) A detection mechanism
c) A way of enforcing a confidentiality policy
d) A way of enforcing an integrity policy
e) A way of enforcing an availability policy
ANS:b


(14) I have described how the Email new password button on the login page works. 
        Let's say that instead of resetting the password to a random password, I reset  
        the password to a default value such as "password". This default password 
        would be used to reset any password. If I did this, briefly describe what would 
        be involved for a student to get administrative privileges. (Hint, I have 
        administrative privileges.)
ANS:Someone who is not administrator can reset the other account’s password then after access other account.


(15)  What is malicious logic?
ANS:A set of instructions that cause site security policy to be violated.


(16) Give some suggestions about how to stop spreading viruses?
ANS:Some of the way stopping the viruses are
    1.Do not downloads from unauthorize source.
    2.Do not open the links attached to email from untrusted source.


(17) Virtual machines are useful in protecting a computer from viruses.
a) True
b) False
ANS:a


